uv is a modern package manager written in Rust, and it is significantly faster than pip—often boasting 10x to 100x speed improvements. It also unifies several tools like pip, virtualenv, and pip-tools into one command.

Since you are running into issues with your existing venv and pip installation, setting up uv is a great way to resolve those environment headaches and get started with a much faster tool.

Here is the process for installing uv on Windows and using it to set up your project.

🛠️ Step 1: Install uv on Windows
You have a few options for installing uv. The standalone installer using PowerShell is often the most direct method:

Open PowerShell (You can search for it in your Windows Start menu).

Run the following command:

PowerShell

powershell -ExecutionPolicy ByPass -c "irm https://astral.sh/uv/install.ps1 | iex"
The -ExecutionPolicy ByPass flag is necessary to allow the script to run from the internet.

Restart your terminal (the one that shows (venv)).

🚀 Step 2: Use uv to Create the Environment and Install Packages
Now that uv is installed, you can use it to completely replace the steps you were doing with python -m venv and pip install -r.

A. Delete the Corrupted venv First, delete the old, problematic venv folder in your project directory (the same folder where main.py is).

B. Create the Environment with uv

In your project folder (e.g., G:\My Drive\RAG_Voice_Chatbot), run this command to create a new, clean virtual environment named .venv (this replaces python -m venv venv):

Bash

uv venv
Activate the Environment You still need to activate it:

PowerShell

.\.venv\Scripts\Activate
C. Install Requirements with uv

The uv command to install from a requirements.txt file is uv pip install -r. This is faster and ensures your environment exactly matches the file.

Bash

uv pip install -r requirements.txt
This should be significantly faster than what you experienced with pip and will resolve the missing module errors by creating a clean environment from scratch.